GMT starts now
now how many times do you stop at your
favorite donut shop every week now
that's splurge it may not be a lot it
does add up so Katie Hume of surly Todd
is here to talk to us about how easy and
cheap it is to make cake donuts at home
for yourself hey thank you you're
welcome it's so easy to make cake donuts
at home or donuts in general once you
know how to do it make the dough fry
them you could make them a couple days
in advance and serve them basically all
week now you told me early on when it
comes to donuts it's all about the oil
until we one of these to be done by the
time we finish tell me what oil you have
here this is vegetable oil you could use
canola oil you could use whatever oil
that you want to use you don't really
want need something like peanut oil
because you don't want it in part that
flavor on there anytime you fry you want
to be the optimal temperature between
350 and 375 degrees okay so you've gotta
have a thermometer or one of the Friday
let you know how that works notice that
I starting to float in there that's what
you want okay that was a safety tips
here when you got hot oil on the stove's
you make sure you don't run away from it
it's really not a good thing anything
like this for instance is a pot that
really encloses the heat really well
notice there's a big difference in how
low the temporal is compared to the pot
just a lot safer like that okay so
anything with the taller sides are
better out to go definitely okay so
we've got those Donuts cooking how are
they going to need to go they're going
to go about minute and a half or so each
side see it start to brown slightly on
the outside then we'll turn them over
okay perfect let's talk about what the
dough is what's involved here what we're
gonna do in this one bowl is all the wet
ingredients we have egg milk and melted
butter okay and I hear you with all
right I'm whisking will place you to
work over here then we're slowly gonna
start to add the flour the flour dry
ingredients which is flour sugar baking
powder okay notice how I'm adding it in
small batches so it's not getting lumpy
once you add enough then we can just
dump the rest in there if I just put all
this in there you get huge clump trips
and we don't want charge exactly okay so
consistency wise are we looking for
something like pancake batter or thicker
this is gonna be thicker more more dough
or yes okay let's take a pot and we're
gonna flip this right here I'm gonna let
you do that because I'm not licensed for
gold hardens right there okay good
beautiful keep on whisking over there
I'm whiskey I'm whisking we're not even
doing the job feel beautiful those are
no way right television was easy
we're going to dump the rest of it right
here right here okay then when it comes
time to roll this out how deep do we
want to roll this dough you've got it
over here everyone already done ones or
even we rolled this out it's about a
half an inch or so don't get too much
flour on you and I'm gonna press it out
with a doughnut cutter okay all right so
you got a hat I didn't you go there and
you've got a doughnut cutter mm-hmm
which is has a hole at the bottom and
allows it to puff up let me take those
doughnuts out over there all right so
tell me is the is the doughnut with a
whole important for it to cook writer
can you make your own shapes if I wanted
to make your own shapes but you really
want to watch how thick it is how why
does get will happen it folks how wide
it is because what will happen is that
you'll get it nice and golden brown on
the outside but then the inside will be
doughy won't taste very good okay so not
too thick not too solid so that's why
they put the hole in the middle exactly
and with this cutter you can actually
cook the doughnut holes as well as
anyway yeah we're in fair they don't
hold something right now oh there we go
perfect seeing we get to eat these later
now tell me something how many things
can you put in the pot at one time to
make sure that you're not bringing down
the temperature of the oil how much is
happening put something in the fryer is
going to bring down the temperature
slightly but you don't want to overflow
it so you have like what 12 doughnuts in
there because then they're just going to
be not hot enough okay so once you're
done you've got your cake doughnuts and
you're letting them cool you wanted you
want to dress them up you want to season
them what do you suggest today we're
gonna get cinnamon sugar I love cinnamon
sugar powdered sugar you can make a
glaze it really depends what you want to
do things like cinnamon sugar tend to
last longer because they so humid here
that it will get kind of sticky and you
know so what we're going to do once are
slightly hot handled handleable but a
little hot we're then going to put and
coat it here lovely now how long will be
stay fresh once they're made I would say
you can last maybe like two or three
days two or three days yeah and for
keeping them you want to keep them cool
keep them warm um you want to do an
airtight container after their cool down
if you put them in like an airtight
container right now they'll get kind of
mushy and soggy all right so it's a
great way to have some fun at home you
can let the kids decorate them
afterwards and also save a little money
if you want a copy of today's recipe
check out our website at WFA
dot-com / gmt a childhood staple it's
the big time on wednesday we